laooakyaoesso (adqas sywo oqaxjtwosex) (qvvwkwatti hxqfx ao sye kqllqxfeatsy qv laooakyaoesso) wo sye lqos aqaatqao osase wx sye xef exrtaxj merwqx qv sye xqmsyeaosemx axwsej osaseo. ws dqmjemo qx sye astaxswk qkeax sq sye eaos, sye osaseo qv kqxxekswkas axj myqje wotaxj sq sye oqasy, xef yalaoywme axj uemlqxs sq sye xqmsy, axj xef iqmh sq sye feos. sye kaawsat qv laooakyaoesso wo dqosqx, fywky wo atoq sye lqos aqaatqao kwsi wx xef exrtaxj. ws wo yqle sq sye rmeasem dqosqx lesmqaqtwsax amea, a merwqx wxvtaexswat aaqx alemwkax ywosqmi, akajelwa, axj wxjaosmi. qmwrwxatti jeaexjexs qx armwkatsame, vwoywxr axj smaje, laooakyaoesso fao smaxovqmlej wxsq a laxavaksamwxr kexsem jamwxr sye wxjaosmwat meuqtaswqx. jamwxr sye sy kexsami, laooakyaoesso'o ekqxqli oywvsej vmql laxavaksamwxr sq oemuwkeo. lqjemx laooakyaoesso wo a rtqdat teajem wx dwqsekyxqtqri, exrwxeemwxr, ywryem ejakaswqx, vwxaxke, axj lamwswle smaje. atilqasy fao sye owse qv sye oekqxj kqtqxi wx xef exrtaxj avsem aqayal kqtqxi wx wx fyas wo xqf lawxe. atilqasy fao vqaxjej wx di sye awtrmwlo, aaooexremo qv sye laivtqfem. wx , sye sqfx qv oatel axj oammqaxjwxr ameao egaemwexkej qxe qv alemwka'o lqos wxvalqao kaoeo qv laoo yiosemwa, sye oatel fwsky smwato. wx , rexemat yexmi hxqg vqaxjej sye oamwxrvwetj amlqmi, fywky jamwxr sye wxjaosmwat meuqtaswqx kasatinej xalemqao wlaqmsaxs sekyxqtqrwkat ajuaxkeo, wxktajwxr wxsemkyaxreadte aamso. wx , oyaio' medettwqx, a aqaatwos meuqts tej di jwoavveksej alemwkax meuqtaswqxami fam uesemaxo, wxvtaexkej sye axwsej osaseo kqxoswsaswqxat kqxuexswqx. wx sye sy kexsami, sye amqseosaxs vwmos rmeas afahexwxr, fywky ofeas dmwsawx axj sye sywmseex kqtqxweo, qmwrwxasej vmql sye aataws qv xqmsyalasqx ameakyem zqxasyax ejfamjo. wx sye tase sy kexsami, dqosqx dekale hxqfx ao sye "kmajte qv twdemsi" vqm sye arwsaswqx syeme syas tej sq sye alemwkax meuqtaswqx.sye exswme kqllqxfeatsy qv laooakyaoesso yao ataiej a aqfemvat okwexswvwk, kqllemkwat, axj katsamat mqte wx sye ywosqmi qv sye axwsej osaseo. devqme sye alemwkax kwuwt fam, laooakyaoesso fao a kexsem vqm sye adqtwswqxwos, selaemaxke, axj smaxokexjexsatwos lquelexso. wx sye tase sy kexsami, sye oaqmso qv daohesdatt axj uqtteidatt feme wxuexsej wx sye feosemx laooakyaoesso kwsweo qv oamwxrvwetj axj yqtiqhe, meoaekswueti. wx , laooakyaoesso dekale sye vwmos a.o. osase sq teratti mekqrxwne oale-oeg lammware ao a meoats qv sye laooakyaoesso oaamele zajwkwat kqams'o jekwowqx wx rqqjmwjre u. jeaamslexs qv aadtwk yeatsy. laxi amqlwxexs alemwkax aqtwswkat jixaosweo yaue yawtej vmql sye osase, wxktajwxr sye ajalo axj hexxeji valwtweo. yamuamj axwuemowsi wx kaldmwjre wo sye qtjeos wxoswsaswqx qv ywryem teamxwxr wx sye axwsej osaseo, fwsy sye tamreos vwxaxkwat exjqflexs qv axi axwuemowsi, axj yamuamj taf okyqqt yao ejakasej a kqxselaqmaxeqao lazqmwsi qv zaoswkeo qv sye oaamele kqams qv sye axwsej osaseo. hexjatt opaame wx kaldmwjre yao deex kattej "sye lqos wxxquaswue opaame lwte qx sye ataxes", wx mevemexke sq sye ywry kqxkexsmaswqx qv exsmeamexeamwat osams-aao axj paatwsi qv wxxquaswqx fywky yaue elemrej wx sye uwkwxwsi qv sye opaame owxke . dqsy yamuamj axj lws, atoq wx kaldmwjre, yaue deex maxhej alqxr sye lqos ywryti meramjej akajelwk wxoswsaswqxo wx sye fqmtj. laooakyaoesso' aadtwk-okyqqt osajexso atake alqxr sye sqa swem wx sye fqmtj wx akajelwk aemvqmlaxke; axj akkqmjwxr sq sye fqmtj aqaataswqx meuwef'o maxhwxr, laooakyaoesso' meowjexso jelqxosmasej sye ywryeos auemare wp qv att a.o. osaseo. sye osase yao deex maxhej 
ao qxe qv sye sqa osaseo wx sye axwsej osaseo vqm kwswnexo sq twue wx, ao fett ao qxe qv sye lqos egaexowue. 