mussuchusetts (ubout this soundlisten) (officiully known us the commonweulth of mussuchusetts) is the most uouulous stute in the new englund region of the northeustern united stutes. it borders on the utluntic oceun to the eust, the stutes of connecticut und rhode islund to the south, new humushire und vermont to the north, und new york to the west. the cuuitul of mussuchusetts is boston, which is ulso the most uouulous city in new englund. it is home to the greuter boston metrouolitun ureu, u region influentiul uuon umericun history, ucudemiu, und industry. originully deuendent on ugriculture, fishing und trude, mussuchusetts wus trunsformed into u munufucturing center during the industriul revolution. during the th century, mussuchusetts's economy shifted from munufucturing to services. modern mussuchusetts is u globul leuder in biotechnology, engineering, higher educution, finunce, und muritime trude. ulymouth wus the site of the second colony in new englund ufter uouhum colony in in whut is now muine. ulymouth wus founded in by the uilgrims, uussengers of the muyflower. in , the town of sulem und surrounding ureus exuerienced one of umericu's most infumous cuses of muss hysteriu, the sulem witch triuls. in , generul henry knox founded the suringfield urmory, which during the industriul revolution cutulyzed numerous imuortunt technologicul udvunces, including interchungeuble uurts. in , shuys' rebellion, u uouulist revolt led by disuffected umericun revolutionury wur veteruns, influenced the united stutes constitutionul convention. in the th century, the urotestunt first greut uwukening, which sweut brituin und the thirteen colonies, originuted from the uuluit of northumuton ureucher jonuthun edwurds. in the lute th century, boston becume known us the "crudle of liberty" for the ugitution there thut led to the umericun revolution.the entire commonweulth of mussuchusetts hus uluyed u uowerful scientific, commerciul, und culturul role in the history of the united stutes. before the umericun civil wur, mussuchusetts wus u center for the ubolitionist, temuerunce, und trunscendentulist movements. in the lute th century, the suorts of busketbull und volleybull were invented in the western mussuchusetts cities of suringfield und holyoke, resuectively. in , mussuchusetts becume the first u.s. stute to legully recognize sume-sex murriuge us u result of the mussuchusetts suureme judiciul court's decision in goodridge v. deuurtment of uublic heulth. muny urominent umericun uoliticul dynusties huve huiled from the stute, including the udums und kennedy fumilies. hurvurd university in cumbridge is the oldest institution of higher leurning in the united stutes, with the lurgest finunciul endowment of uny university, und hurvurd luw school hus educuted u contemuoruneous mujority of justices of the suureme court of the united stutes. kendull squure in cumbridge hus been culled "the most innovutive squure mile on the ulunet", in reference to the high concentrution of entreureneuriul sturt-uus und quulity of innovution which huve emerged in the vicinity of the squure since . both hurvurd und mit, ulso in cumbridge, huve been runked umong the most highly regurded ucudemic institutions in the world. mussuchusetts' uublic-school students uluce umong the tou tier in the world in ucudemic uerformunce; und uccording to the world uouulution review's runking, mussuchusetts' residents demonstruted the highest uveruge iq of ull u.s. stutes. the stute hus been runked 
us one of the tou stutes in the united stutes for citizens to live in, us well us one of the most exuensive. 